{
  "magic": "E!vIA5L86J2I",
  "timestamp": "2025-11-09T01:46:02.294892+00:00",
  "repo": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "bug",
      "description": "Something wrong in the doc",
      "color": "d73a4a"
    },
    {
      "name": "discuss",
      "description": "Needs WG consensus",
      "color": "d876e3"
    },
    {
      "name": "editorial",
      "description": "Editorial changes",
      "color": "0075ca"
    },
    {
      "name": "hold",
      "description": "Perhaps wait for WG recharter",
      "color": "cfd3d7"
    },
    {
      "name": "reality",
      "description": "Doesn't describe current reality",
      "color": "a2eeef"
    },
    {
      "name": "wontfix",
      "description": "This will not be worked on",
      "color": "ffffff"
    },
    {
      "name": "policy change",
      "description": "A change in the current operating policy/procedures",
      "color": "6e2030"
    }
  ],
  "issues": [
    {
      "number": 1,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM686Si5UU",
      "title": "reference to \"conflict of interest\"",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/1",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "bug"
      ],
      "body": "The original doc says in the first paragraph of section 3:\r\n```\r\nWG participants should specifically note the\r\nrequirements for disclosure of conflicts of interest in [2].\r\n```\r\n\r\n[2] is RFC 2028, obsoleted by 9281 and neither one of these mentions conflict of interest.\r\n\r\nSee email thread at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/ietf/8mEwZkwtL-WNCPyZ5hBd7FaWVq8/\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-08-09T20:26:48Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:49:06Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-10-15T17:49:06Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Per email with Scott, this should probably be a reference to 2026 because that talks about disclosures.",
          "createdAt": "2025-04-04T18:42:41Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-04-04T18:42:41Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 5,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM686U4al6",
      "title": "The \"Internet-Drafts\" section is outdated",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/5",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "bug",
        "reality"
      ],
      "body": "The section titled \"Internet-Drafts\" has a bunch of outdated information\r\n\r\n- Says to submit via email\r\n- Says secretariat maintains boilerplate\r\n- refers to 1id-organization.txt file\r\n- refers to 1id-guidelines.txt file\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-08-30T17:07:23Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T16:17:48Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Several of the items have been fixed (in the to-be-published darft-04 which has updates from the RPC editor) but not all.",
          "createdAt": "2024-09-04T14:27:29Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-09-04T14:27:29Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "becarpenter",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "The word \"adopt\" does not occur anywhere in this section, yet it is a _de facto_ part of WG process. I suggest that we should add a very brief definition of adoption something like:\n\nWorking Groups MAY formally adopt an Internet-Draft to indicate that it is being considered as a candidate for publication as an RFC.\n\n(Anything beyond that can be in a separate document; this is just an anchor.)",
          "createdAt": "2025-08-29T07:44:07Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-08-29T07:44:07Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 8,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM686VWSHQ",
      "title": "Everyone still says \"Executive Director\"",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/8",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "RFC 8717 https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8717#name-where-appropriate-replaceme\r\n\r\nBut everywhere (not in this doc!) it still says Executive Director\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-09-04T15:10:16Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-04-07T16:37:09Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-04-07T16:37:09Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "See errata I filed against 8717: https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/eid8093\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2024-09-04T15:19:52Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-09-04T15:19:52Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 11,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM686Z2UfB",
      "title": "update IETF Meetings",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/11",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "moonshiner",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "bug",
        "reality"
      ],
      "body": "still talks of emailing agenda@ietf.org\r\n\r\nand may want to discuss newer tools to manage meetings. but maybe not",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-11T11:34:15Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T16:18:23Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 12,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM686Z2VP_",
      "title": "Staff Roles",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/12",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "moonshiner",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "These two feel very outdated\r\n\r\n Document Editor\r\n\r\nWG Facilitator\r\n\r\n\"Working Group Consultant\" is more like Adviser now from another area\r\n\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-11T11:35:29Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-08-29T01:01:59Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mcr",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "also #19 ",
          "createdAt": "2025-08-29T01:01:59Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-08-29T01:01:59Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 13,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM686Z2afq",
      "title": "Update Charter to add Privacy and Security ",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/13",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "moonshiner",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "discuss objectives and expected impact with respect to:\r\n\r\nPrivacy \r\n\r\nSecurity\r\n\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-11T11:42:47Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-07T21:39:57Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Hi Tim, I feel like I'm missing some context on this issue. Could you elaborate a bit on what you're looking for please?",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-01T19:55:32Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-01T19:55:32Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "moonshiner",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "Had to go look:\n\n> To facilitate evaluation of the intended work and to provide on-going\n> guidance to the working group, the charter must describe the problem\n> being solved and should discuss objectives and expected impact with\n> respect to:\n\nI feel there should be also sections for\n\n- Privacy \n- Security\n\nto go along with Architecture, Operations, etc. ",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-01T20:01:09Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-01T20:01:09Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Thanks! It looks like the current list is:\n* Architecture\n* Operations\n* Security\n* Network management\n* Scaling\n* Transition (where applicable)\n\nSo, are you suggesting we just add a bullet for Privacy?\n\nWe could potentially lean on [RFC 6973](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6973) to make the case for this.",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-03T15:46:55Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-03T15:46:55Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Maybe \"Security (including privacy issues)\" ?",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-03T16:04:30Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-03T16:04:30Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "moonshiner",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "What Old Man Salz Said. ",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-03T16:36:01Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-03T16:36:01Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "jariarkko",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "Ok for me",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-07T21:39:57Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-07T21:39:57Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 15,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM686x1xcC",
      "title": "Michael Richardson's comments",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/15",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "See https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/procon/X1qRYD6Vc4zHdQ6ZGg-Aps_o0_E/. He has a message that talks about 2026bis and 2418bis.\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-04-09T19:05:11Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-08-29T17:34:31Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-08-29T17:34:31Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Thanks for doing this @mcr.  It wasn't lack of knowledge, it was time :)",
          "createdAt": "2025-08-29T17:34:31Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-08-29T17:34:31Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 17,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687IktLV",
      "title": "section 4.2.1, agenda@ietf.org is obsolete",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/17",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mcr",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Agenda requests are now handled through DT.\n\nreplaces #15.\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-08-29T00:44:09Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T17:55:17Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-10-07T17:55:17Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "dup of #11",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T17:55:17Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T17:55:17Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 18,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687Ikt32",
      "title": "split up section 4.2.2 (posting privileges)",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/18",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mcr",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "discuss"
      ],
      "body": "```\n   As in face-to-face sessions, occasionally one or more individuals may\n   engage in behavior on a mailing list that, in the opinion of the WG\n   chair, is disruptive to the WG process. \n```\n\nThis needs to be a new section.  Maybe a top-level section.\nI also think that this might even warrant a new document, because I think that our processes around disruptive individuals will change more.\nI'd prefer to rev another document rather than open 2418bis.\n\nreplace #15 ",
      "createdAt": "2025-08-29T00:46:43Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T22:34:17Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Is this overtaken by MODPOD?  Should we just point to that?",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T18:00:27Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T18:00:27Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Personal comment from Jari Arkko [on the list](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/procon/FHxd8FXHbETUaEFT3HxVf0gXjeQ/):\n\n> I think the right approach here is to refer to other documents, and perhaps optionally re-state the summary of the current stance according to those documents. I thought we were largely doing that already. Modpod doc is I guess just the latest in a series of documents on this topic. It seems likely (?) that this is done before we are done, so maybe we can refer to it.",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-03T18:23:21Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-03T18:23:21Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "This was discussed in the PROCON meeting at IETF 124. Since draft-ietf-modpod-group-processes updates 2418, it might be worth it for us to wait until draft-ietf-modpod-group-processes gets further along and then update 2418bis to reference it, deleting all the no-longer-relevant text.",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-04T22:34:16Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T22:34:16Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 19,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687Ikuon",
      "title": "rework Staff Role section",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/19",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mcr",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The word \"Staff\" implies to some that the people listed are employed by the IETF, rather than volunteers that serve at the whim of another layer of volunteer.\n\nI think that the WG Chair section needs further structure.\nI think that I would move all of the 7.x up a section to be section X.\n\nreplace #15 ",
      "createdAt": "2025-08-29T00:49:34Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-08-29T00:51:44Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mcr",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "I think section 7.1 (WG Chairs) might perhaps be split up into two sections.\nI'm not quite sure about the titles yet.\n* WG Chair Responsabilities (Things they are uniquely empowered to do)\n* WG Chair Obligations (Things they need to coordinate/lead)\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-08-29T00:51:44Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-08-29T00:51:44Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 20,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687Iku0f",
      "title": "should we keep WG Facilitator?",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/20",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mcr",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "discuss"
      ],
      "body": "\n\nI've never seen the WG Facilitator role be formally enacted.\nNot sure it belongs anymore. We just do this as we need to.\n\nreplace #15 ",
      "createdAt": "2025-08-29T00:50:00Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T23:58:21Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "See also #12 ",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-22T19:38:07Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-22T19:38:07Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "This was discussed in the PROCON meeting at IETF 124. There was interested in the room to keep the facilitator role since it might still be useful even if it's unused. A concern was raised that the facilitator role might cause confusion. We'll take this to the issue/list",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-04T22:35:27Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T22:39:38Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "sayrer",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "I hadn't seen this one, and I actually expanded it in #33, so I guess we have both directions to consider.",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-04T23:58:08Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T23:58:21Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 21,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687IkvP4",
      "title": "more structure around Design Teams",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/21",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mcr",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "I think Design Teams needs more text. \nParticularly around record keeping as it affects IPR.\nDesign Teams need to keep some record of decisions, and who was present at meetings.\n\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-08-29T00:51:08Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T22:39:10Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Personal comment from Jari Arkko [on the list](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/procon/FHxd8FXHbETUaEFT3HxVf0gXjeQ/):\n\n> I guess one challenge here is that there are multiple kinds of design teams, as noted in the RFC already. So if we were to formalize this more, would this only apply to some kind of how would that work? One could of course set some guidelines on how official design teams work, e.g., for the conduct of the WG chairs or ADs in setting them up. And then leave the hallway designs teams alone...",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-03T18:23:36Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-03T18:23:36Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mcr",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "I prefer that we make it easier for WG chairs to establish design teams, and\nfor them to be able to use meetecho.   We need to get the recordings and blue\nsheets.  Some WGs in the past have had IPR issues and process issues because\nthe design teams did not keep any records of decisions.\n\nIf \"hallway\" design teams (I've not heard that term before, but it's\napt), sprawl beyond CC's between the listed authors, then they should be\nofficial so that people can find/join them.\n\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-04T03:07:23Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T03:07:23Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "This was discussed in the PROCON meeting at IETF 124. I'll write a PR to see what the change looks like",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-04T22:39:10Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T22:39:10Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 22,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687IkvVN",
      "title": "should the sample WG charter be retained",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/22",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mcr",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "I don't know if the \tAppendix: Sample Working Group Charter is useful.\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-08-29T00:51:25Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-01T20:37:38Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-11-01T20:37:38Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "See also #13 which points out some things its missing.",
          "createdAt": "2025-09-30T23:09:02Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-09-30T23:09:02Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Closed by #29 ",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-01T20:37:38Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-01T20:37:38Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 23,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687NJ-kd",
      "title": "suspending posting privileges - remove text?",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/23",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "discuss"
      ],
      "body": "RFC 3934 updates 3.2 to allw suspension of posting privileges. This will be obsoleted by the MODPOD WG document",
      "createdAt": "2025-09-22T17:15:33Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T18:05:52Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-10-07T18:05:52Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Dup of #18",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T18:05:52Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T18:05:52Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 24,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687NZO0i",
      "title": "Codify call for adoption?",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/24",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "discuss"
      ],
      "body": "From Brian E Carpenter on the mailing list:\n\n> Adoption is _not_ a formal step in the IETF process described by RFC 2026\n> and RFC 2418. Most newcomers seem to assume that it is, since it's\n> entrenched in common practice and in the tracker.\n\n> There is a question that the WG charter allows us to ask: should WG\n> adoption be mentioned in section 8.2 of 2418bis? That is distinct from\n> the longer term question of pursuing draft-carpenter-gendispatch-rfc7221bis.",
      "createdAt": "2025-09-23T16:26:53Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T17:46:19Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Personal comment from Jari Arkko [on the list](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/procon/FHxd8FXHbETUaEFT3HxVf0gXjeQ/):\n\n> We should, it is in our charter. Specifying this will fall somewhere between detailed process and laying out the principles. Personally I would maybe fall somewhere closer to the latter than the former, one could for instance talk about expecting WGs to be open to hearing adoption proposals for documents that are within their charter, WG participants' input being important here (including on the list) and the chairs making the final decision based on that input.",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-03T18:22:21Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-03T18:22:21Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "This was discussed in the PROCON meeting at IETF 124. Feeling from the room was to loosely define the concept of adoption without going into too much detail",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-04T17:46:19Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T17:46:19Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 27,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687QJQ3o",
      "title": "do virtual side meetings count as BOFs",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/27",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mcr",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "discuss"
      ],
      "body": "I think some clarification would be useful as to whether virtual interim (side)meetings count as BOFs.\n\n2418 speaks about 1 BOF, with 2 being an exception.\n2 BOFs is now very common, with one or more side meetings even occuring.\nBOF organizers/proponents often (particularly pandemic) have weekly to monthly organizing meetings.\nThis is done using ad-hoc meeting technology, which often results in problems accessing for some, lack of good records.  Many would prefer to use meetecho for this, but then there was push back that said if it used the official tool, then it would be a BOF.\nIf the reason to limit BOFs to <= 2 is due to time constraints for plenary week, then any time elsewhere (elsewhen?) should not count.\nIf there are other reasons to limit BOF, then they should be enumerated.\n\nThere is also now an IAB involvement in bringing new work.\n\nreplacing ietf-wg-procon/2026bis#19, and this issue should move to other repo.\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-08-29T00:42:21Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T17:51:15Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Personal comment from Jari Arkko [on the list](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/procon/FHxd8FXHbETUaEFT3HxVf0gXjeQ/):\n\n> Just an observation that this is a reality-alignment beyond the specific cases mentioned in our charter. That\u2019s ok, but let\u2019s remember that. I think we\u2019ve also slipped on the strictness of the hard BoF number limits. Maybe that's fair because typically the topic shifts during the discussion so BoF # 2 for instance may be quite different from BoF # 1. One option could be to soften the rule instead of starting to specify the application of the rule to the virtual case.",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-03T18:22:53Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-03T18:22:53Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mcr",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "BOF#2 was supposed to be a rare event in 2418.\nIt's anything but.  We established this rule because plenary time was\nexpensive, and we didn't have easy virtual meetings.  (It's even *MORE*\nexpensive now in my opinion)\n\nIn-person BOF sessions at the plenary are at the discretion of ADs/IESG, and so let's\njust let them decide.\nIn most cases, the virtual meetings are used to prepare.\nI'd prefer to be able to use meetecho for that; because recordings and NoteWell.\nThis has been denied because it would \"count\", and I'd rather we just didn't.\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-04T03:07:26Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T03:07:26Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "This was discussed in the PROCON meeting at IETF 124. Sense of the room was to remove the text saying that BoFs have to happen at plenary meetings. We would keep the two BoF limit and that would extend to all kinds of BoFs (in-person plenary, in-person out of cycle, virtual out of cycle, working-group forming, non-working group forming, etc). If we want to change the limit, that would be a specific issue - and might not be in charter.",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-04T17:51:15Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-04T17:51:15Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 31,
      "id": "I_kwDOMaVM687VjWg3",
      "title": "Do we need to remove draft standard from 2418 text?",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/issues/31",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "jariarkko",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "You\u2019ve recently changed 2026bis to be clear what the current standard levels are while also noting that the draft standard level is still out there for some documents. That\u2019s great, thank you. \n\nHere\u2019s the text you currently have:\n\nSpecifications that are intended to become Internet Standards evolve through a set of maturity levels known as the \"standards track\". These maturity levels -- \"Proposed Standard\" and \"Internet Standard\" -- are defined and discussed in Section 6.1. The way in which specifications move along the standards track is described in Section 8.\n\nThere used to be a status that came between Proposed Standard and Internet Standard called \"Draft Standard.\" As of the writing of this document, there still exist some RFCs at that status. Documents at Draft Standard may be advanced to Internet Standard, either via the procedure described in Section 8 (if they meet the requirements of Section 6.1.1) or with the consent of the IESG. The IESG may also decide to remove the Draft Standard status from a document and mark it as either Historic or Proposed Standard.\n\nBut it seems to me that the following texts in 2418bis are also something that should be impacted:\n\n5. Working Group Termination\n\nWorking groups are typically chartered to accomplish a specific task or tasks. After the tasks are complete, the group will be disbanded. However, if a WG produces a Proposed or Draft Standard, the WG will frequently become dormant rather than disband (i.e., the WG will no longer conduct formal activities, but the mailing list will remain available to review the work as it moves to Draft Standard and Standard status.)\n\n\u2026\n\n7.1. WG Chair\n\n...\n\nDocument implementations\n\nUnder the procedures described in [_2026bis], the Chair is responsible for documenting the specific implementations which qualify the specification for Draft or Internet Standard status along with documentation about testing of the interoperation of these implementations.\n\nOr am I missing something?",
      "createdAt": "2025-11-03T16:27:57Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-03T16:27:57Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    }
  ],
  "pulls": [
    {
      "number": 2,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM6853_HRC",
      "title": "Incorporate RFC 3934",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/2",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2024-08-09T20:39:24Z",
      "updatedAt": "2024-08-29T14:52:33Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "b5ef6e88520eae65eef5a2a8a84cb48c6d7425cf",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "rfc3934",
      "headRefOid": "650f88d2189c5152e0fdae1b6610d23e2d9598aa",
      "closedAt": "2024-08-29T14:52:33Z",
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 3,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM68552dxw",
      "title": "Incorporate RFC3934",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/3",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "A few other minor edit/typo fixes.",
      "createdAt": "2024-08-29T15:14:56Z",
      "updatedAt": "2024-08-30T14:26:30Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "368d5e7e03ac43d90f0e4e6e50fb0393c3f1b325",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "rfc3934",
      "headRefOid": "870301cdf2e049bc540a4ffc9a95f91d184b8a2c",
      "closedAt": "2024-08-30T14:26:27Z",
      "mergedAt": "2024-08-30T14:26:27Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "7c54872911f728a6ff926b265de3581f825a6776"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 4,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM6855_JFf",
      "title": "Incorporate RFC7475",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/4",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Add acknowledgements and change log\r\nAlso fix the internal links to markdown refs.\r\nRename \"RFC2026\" to \"bis2026\" and point to the draft.",
      "createdAt": "2024-08-30T14:45:53Z",
      "updatedAt": "2024-09-03T19:53:30Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "7c54872911f728a6ff926b265de3581f825a6776",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "rfc7475",
      "headRefOid": "86a4ce89528785de9691d96ff939978cd34fab94",
      "closedAt": "2024-09-03T19:53:27Z",
      "mergedAt": "2024-09-03T19:53:27Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "c50bd87ea3710d2d1809d5c312b31dc6f6a87eaa"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 6,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM6856TuHC",
      "title": "Incorporate RFC8717",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/6",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2024-09-03T20:14:45Z",
      "updatedAt": "2024-09-04T14:25:17Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "c50bd87ea3710d2d1809d5c312b31dc6f6a87eaa",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "rfc8717",
      "headRefOid": "70e905a43f87a4ecf79c8ffecc11b0d9c445b46d",
      "closedAt": "2024-09-04T14:25:14Z",
      "mergedAt": "2024-09-04T14:25:14Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "272f423cf52d96aedf8d092cf0e70ed6c2c87e57"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 7,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM6856aALS",
      "title": "Rfc9141",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/7",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "This goes a bit further than just incorporating text because it adds some updates from the RFC Editor and Secretariat.",
      "createdAt": "2024-09-04T14:31:58Z",
      "updatedAt": "2024-09-05T14:39:30Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "272f423cf52d96aedf8d092cf0e70ed6c2c87e57",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "rfc9141",
      "headRefOid": "2fdcf598d519ffcefe9760dbf1e67ace0e7322eb",
      "closedAt": "2024-09-05T14:39:26Z",
      "mergedAt": "2024-09-05T14:39:26Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "81630568ce20a00a900b1f6bba6a25b7b946afc8"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 9,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM68563cq3",
      "title": "Proposed text for incorporating RFC7776",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/9",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The last one.\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-09-09T15:07:01Z",
      "updatedAt": "2024-09-09T16:34:51Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "81630568ce20a00a900b1f6bba6a25b7b946afc8",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "rfc7776",
      "headRefOid": "d2a5761cb0fa695ff6c43c5bb434ae19fb39830f",
      "closedAt": "2024-09-09T16:34:47Z",
      "mergedAt": "2024-09-09T16:34:47Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "73e05b77c5e2b591a1f8cc93877a9bfc9637e16a"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 10,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM685-QdvC",
      "title": "Errata",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/10",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-10T18:25:34Z",
      "updatedAt": "2024-10-10T18:41:01Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "499d97243662b2fbde7881ba9872a6dd6db2e00d",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "errata",
      "headRefOid": "3f8b4aa4ca93fa11ff21c4ad10b34db2a874b87c",
      "closedAt": "2024-10-10T18:40:57Z",
      "mergedAt": "2024-10-10T18:40:57Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "5c9858603fc6b0a47377fdb843297405799d0ed8"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 14,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686NNRoC",
      "title": "IASA2-update terminology changes",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/14",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Fixes: #8",
      "createdAt": "2025-03-03T20:45:03Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-07-15T16:36:20Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "4821254564d0f402af30e68c392f019d841b99ba",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "iasa-terminology",
      "headRefOid": "08ed551d9215e10ec3c55a4e173cd462a1daba4e",
      "closedAt": "2025-04-07T16:37:08Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-04-07T16:37:08Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "2e5976d5324c7fdadb6209da7b4e87e249046b27"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 16,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686gm9A3",
      "title": "Clarify IAB liaison",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/16",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "and expand IAB acronym at first occurrence",
      "createdAt": "2025-07-25T10:38:45Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:53:53Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "53eab7f6a8cd740fdc9b2eb7a561ef088c0e5bdf",
      "headRepository": "mirjak/draft-rsalz-2418bis",
      "headRefName": "patch-1",
      "headRefOid": "4bb67eb4494fb1e53000f9a3bba14045c4851390",
      "closedAt": "2025-10-15T17:53:53Z",
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Actually we could even cite RFC2850 here...",
          "createdAt": "2025-07-25T10:39:36Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-07-25T10:39:36Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "rebased and merge on my laptop.",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-15T17:53:53Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:53:53Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687HHrd5",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "4bb67eb"
          },
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "thanks!  I wanted to make explicit that the IAB has two seats, but if you think it's still clear enough, okay.",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-15T14:20:05Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T14:20:05Z",
          "comments": []
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687HLPml",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "4bb67eb"
          },
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-15T17:45:12Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:45:12Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 25,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686rm7PZ",
      "title": "Fix repo link",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/25",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "DavidSchinazi",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-10-01T17:50:31Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-01T18:36:34Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "199061b43e9d7f28f86625f3ed264f88eae6e0d1",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "fix_repo_link",
      "headRefOid": "69c8a8a131e82dc755ecc5af601ae7113a1e7798",
      "closedAt": "2025-10-01T18:01:55Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-10-01T18:01:55Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "bea38387873ccff4c328dea4a48b41411ba6a6aa"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687EHyvC",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "69c8a8a"
          },
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-01T18:01:43Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-01T18:01:43Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 26,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686sYSmr",
      "title": "Make milestones optional",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/26",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "DavidSchinazi",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "This PR incorporates draft-schinazi-update-on-milestones into draft-ietf-procon-2418bis. It makes changes to all mentions of milestones in the document.",
      "createdAt": "2025-10-06T22:00:43Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:50:37Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "2be7a565ca16cf83428de6b31391ccb0b2da9c68",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "milestones",
      "headRefOid": "ec6dc4fe92171ce683712c3420eb7c6209bf64d6",
      "closedAt": "2025-10-15T17:50:36Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-10-15T17:50:36Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "7b6aff31d4beefd0504e0386a1b49e8dabfe604a"
      },
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "becarpenter",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "It seems very restrictive that the decision whether or not to specify milestones is made once and for all when a WG is first chartered. It would be quite plausible for a WG with or without milestones to change mode as its role evolves. I suggest that it should be \"when a WG is first chartered _or rechartered_\".",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-08T01:51:52Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-08T01:51:52Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Hi @becarpenter, I agree with you. This is already the case though - does the following sentence not cover it for you?\r\n\r\n> Similarly, the Area Director can enable or disable milestones, or enable or disable dates, or change the granularity of dates, all without a formal recharter.",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-08T03:01:07Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-08T03:01:07Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "becarpenter",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "Yes, I guess, but the present text could be read as setting the decision in concrete.",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-08T03:27:27Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-08T03:27:27Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "That's totally fair, and I'm happy to improve it. Do you have a suggestion for how to make it sound less final without repeating the other section too much?",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-08T03:46:41Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-08T03:46:41Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "becarpenter",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "You know, one word would do it:\r\n\r\n> While chartering a new working group, the IESG will decide whether\r\n> milestones are _initially_  enabled or disabled for this working group,",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-08T04:37:44Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-08T04:37:44Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "I like that. Added the word \"initially\". Thanks for the suggestion.",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-08T18:51:00Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-08T18:51:00Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FJxhS",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "mcr",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "CHANGES_REQUESTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-06T22:10:35Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-06T22:10:48Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 51,
              "body": "Presumably, this could be **changed** by mutual agreement of AD+chairs.\r\nThat the choice does not require a charter revision. You say that later on.  \r\nAnd that it does not require the tooling to enforce the choice?\r\nIt seems like a lot words here.\r\n",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-06T22:10:35Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-06T22:10:48Z"
            },
            {
              "originalPosition": 84,
              "body": "This requires tooling changes.\r\n(I think that milestones would get used and update more often if WG chairs could do this without supervision)\r\n",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-06T22:10:37Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-06T22:10:48Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FJy0f",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-06T22:13:50Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-06T22:13:50Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 84,
              "body": "It does. But we intentionally don't go into the details of the tooling in this document. Just state what is possible and let the IESG work with the tools team to figure out the details",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-06T22:13:50Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-06T22:13:50Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FJzJ2",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-06T22:14:41Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-06T22:14:41Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 51,
              "body": "Yes, it can be changed later. We say that though. I don't think we should get into the details of tooling in this document.",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-06T22:14:41Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-06T22:14:41Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FK2lx",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "mcr",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T00:57:00Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T00:57:00Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 84,
              "body": "> It does. But we intentionally don't go into the details of the tooling in this document. Just state what is possible and let the IESG work with the tools team to figure out the details\r\n\r\nI'm not concerned about the tooling requirement, but the detail of who has authority to do what does need to feed into the tooling. ",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-07T00:57:00Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T00:57:00Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FK2p3",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "mcr",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T00:57:14Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T00:57:14Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 51,
              "body": "> Yes, it can be changed later. We say that though. I don't think we should get into the details of tooling in this document.\r\n\r\nI'm not seeing text that says that here.",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-07T00:57:14Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T00:57:14Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FK4d9",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "mcr",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T01:02:17Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T01:02:18Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 51,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\nWhile chartering a new working group, the IESG will decide whether\r\nmilestones are enabled or disabled for this working group, and if enabled whether there are dates included, and at what granularity.\r\nThe responsible Area Director is empowered to change these details without formal updates to the charter.\r\nThe Area Director is encouraged to discuss these choices with the working group chairs, as the\r\nsuccess of milestones is predicated on the chairs updating them in a timely manner. \r\nUpdating the date attached to a milestone is under the authority of the working group chairs and does not require pre-approval of the Area Director.  \r\nHowever, in the case of a disagreement the final decision lies with the Area Director.\r\n```\r\n",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-07T01:02:18Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T01:02:18Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FTUOF",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T13:38:45Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T13:38:45Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 51,
              "body": "Is any IESG decision unchangeable? But I agree that it is probably worth making explicit here. Perhaps something like at the end: \"This decision can be revisited at any time, when requested by the IESG, the AD, or the WG Chairs.\"",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-07T13:38:45Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T13:38:46Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FTVcK",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "one comment added, which can be left to the WG if you want.\r\n\r\nplease also add yourself as an author, in anticipation of your future work on this :)",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T13:39:56Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T13:39:56Z",
          "comments": []
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FXTGE",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T17:37:26Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T17:38:10Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 51,
              "body": "Thanks for both you suggestions, I've incorporated them into a revised version of this paragraph",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-07T17:37:27Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T17:38:10Z"
            },
            {
              "originalPosition": 84,
              "body": "Got it. I took your suggestion in the paragraph above and removed the mention from here. I think that should address this comment?",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-07T17:37:56Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T17:38:10Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687FXV_H",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6812117"
          },
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-07T17:39:31Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T17:39:32Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 51,
              "body": "looks good, feel free to merge",
              "createdAt": "2025-10-07T17:39:32Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-10-07T17:39:32Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687HHs8i",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6cd582e"
          },
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-15T14:21:07Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T14:21:07Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 28,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686sh1gQ",
      "title": "Change \"conflict of interest\"",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/28",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "This was a mistake in the original doc and should probably be about intellectual property.",
      "createdAt": "2025-10-07T16:11:50Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:49:09Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "33ad4c29658cf51095f860b34e59974e6b16f5a4",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "fix-1",
      "headRefOid": "d3caa6de39cce9e5c95abddb95080d065727293b",
      "closedAt": "2025-10-15T17:49:04Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-10-15T17:49:04Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "2be7a565ca16cf83428de6b31391ccb0b2da9c68"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687HLQfb",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "d3caa6d"
          },
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-15T17:46:28Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:46:28Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 29,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686sh4x-",
      "title": "Remove sample charter",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/29",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-10-07T16:16:17Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:48:37Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "33ad4c29658cf51095f860b34e59974e6b16f5a4",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "fix-13+22",
      "headRefOid": "25b5d3a1f81caf4c9b87682c55e2d0b916b9bdfd",
      "closedAt": "2025-10-15T17:48:34Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-10-15T17:48:33Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "0988591eb559eda3b59d88fbf1c326aa6d40913c"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687HLQwo",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "25b5d3a"
          },
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-15T17:46:52Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:46:52Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 30,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686t5z6-",
      "title": "Add changelog, remove Note",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/30",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "richsalz",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-10-15T14:39:29Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:47:49Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "33ad4c29658cf51095f860b34e59974e6b16f5a4",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "add-changelog-1",
      "headRefOid": "f447c632dec56ec5939f8e875fedb66dab042966",
      "closedAt": "2025-10-15T17:47:45Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-10-15T17:47:45Z",
      "mergedBy": "richsalz",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "ad6772bc4c9f9aeaa128f3b8afdb9daee2a1a900"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687HLP6q",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "f447c63"
          },
          "author": "DavidSchinazi",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-10-15T17:45:39Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-10-15T17:45:39Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 32,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686xhQXT",
      "title": "Gauge.",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/32",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "sayrer",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Oof, it has always been there.",
      "createdAt": "2025-11-04T23:51:08Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-05T13:49:07Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "663e8694fe4da5e937127e0a441e82abf06314d5",
      "headRepository": "sayrer/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "gauge-typo",
      "headRefOid": "6d2619dc53ba23014c8676263130f19ffb7d5d44",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMaVM687L-lV5",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6d2619d"
          },
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "Looks fine :). @DavidSchinazi is the lead on this draft now, so he can merge as he wants.",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-05T13:49:07Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-05T13:49:07Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 33,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686xhRzS",
      "title": "Facilitator",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/33",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "sayrer",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Clean this up for modpod, since it is happening anyway.",
      "createdAt": "2025-11-04T23:56:06Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-05T18:27:16Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "663e8694fe4da5e937127e0a441e82abf06314d5",
      "headRepository": "sayrer/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "facilitator",
      "headRefOid": "cae99b999c71975c130be915463fd80c8d621e07",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Not sure if this captures the sentiment in the room. @DavidSchinazi ",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-05T13:50:05Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-05T13:50:05Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "sayrer",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "I actually just got to this part in catching up in video. But this discussion is about an hour in, and I had only gotten through about 45 minutes when I filed this. It's definitely true that the people on the mic sounded split on this issue. Whether you like the term or not, the text is good:\r\n\r\n\"Their job is to oversee the nature, rather than the\r\n   content, of participant interactions.  That is, they attend to the\r\n   style of the discussion and to the schedule of the agenda, rather\r\n   than making direct technical contributions themselves.\"\r\n\r\nWe could just keep it and say \"WG Moderator\", since \"Facilitator\" is in-fact unused, even by people that really know the IETF well.",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-05T18:27:16Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-05T18:27:16Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 34,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMaVM686xrsIG",
      "title": "RFC 7322 doesn't make requirements",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-procon/2418bis/pull/34",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "paulehoffman",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "It's just a style guide. Many other RFCs list the requirements, but they don't all need to be listed here.",
      "createdAt": "2025-11-05T15:31:06Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-11-05T15:38:18Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-procon/2418bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "663e8694fe4da5e937127e0a441e82abf06314d5",
      "headRepository": "paulehoffman/2418bis",
      "headRefName": "patch-1",
      "headRefOid": "347103ccb6cb8eb6722cf794304a3dd5ee87812c",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "richsalz",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Other reality-changes in that section are that the authors/editors work with the RPC",
          "createdAt": "2025-11-05T15:38:18Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-11-05T15:38:18Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": []
    }
  ]
}